All right. So first of all thanks to the organizers for having us here. And I got to say I'm not
Louis Fai-Khann but I'm spontaneously replacing him today. So nevertheless I will introduce
both him and myself. Louis is both a computer scientist and a physician and he founded New
Health a bit more than 15 years ago. And he's specialized in genomics and medical genetics.
And apart from being active in social medicine he's also involved in animal rights. Then
shortly about me I studied computer science in Hanover and there I'm employed since a
bit more than two years. And mainly I'm working on an Ansible deployment of New Health to
ease and improve the installation process but I'm also reporting and fixing bugs or
rewriting the documentation. And last year we also hosted the annual conference of New
Health in Hanover. And it was also together with the Orson conference. Sebastian will
do the following talk about Orson. And the institute I'm working at is called Computational
Health Informatics and even though we are only working inside computer science it's
always related to medicine. So behind New Health there's a non-profit, non-governmental
organization called Ngu Solitario which is working globally and it's focused on social
medicine and New Health. But there's also the Global Exposome Project that aims to investigate
how the environment has an impact on our health and how social problems like pollution
of water or factory farming or wars also impact this environment and consequently our health.
And then again there are also projects about animal rights where it is involved. Ngu Solitario
is spread quite around the globe but when it comes to productive use in hospitals then
we hear the most of projects in Latin America or Africa for example in Argentina or Cameroon.
And then there are many research institutions, hospitals and so on for example in the top
in the middle there's a university in Argentina that is cooperating quite much with New Health.
Okay, so what is New Health actually? In general it is a hospital information system but the
core is a hospital management information system that is often called HMIS node. And
there you have one client-server architecture and it takes the quite realistic approach
compared to other ways of organizing the infrastructure of hospitals. And it is first of all based
on Frighton which is an enterprise resource planning tool so you can overtake the user
management and inventory stock and finances functionality from this. But then we are adding
modules for hospital functionality and putting this on top. And like Frighton it is written
in Python and using the PostgreSQL database back end. Even though Frighton could theoretically
use others we are always taking this to first have a uniform way and then also because there
are many good functionalities for productive use. And then for example you have really many
modules that are part of New Health for example about surgery or the laboratory or genetics and
bioinformatics and as it's used in many precarious reasons, New Health is embedded as also one
subproject which basically means that there are for example images for respiratory pys because
sometimes yeah it's really a matter of resources what to use. And as the name says, New Health is a
GNU package. So the HMIS component as I said is a client server architecture and on the upper
left you can see a screenshot of the client and with this you can generate graphs, you can display
images, there's a calendar you can use yeah and also the electronic health record is part of this.
Then there's a reporting engine coming with Frighton and so all the information you feel
in the database fields can be exported as an ODT. So there's a LibreOffice in the background
and you can yeah generate this and print it or start outside the program.
Yeah.
Besides there's an integration with Orsan which is a DICOM server to support medical imaging
and actually there's no DICOM viewer integrated in New Health and as usually there is the DICOM
format used. It was chosen not to reimplement any DICOM viewer or do all the work Orsan has already
done but to integrate Orsan and so to synchronize patients and studies between the two of them
and to just use Orsan's DICOM viewers that are integrated there already.
Apart from this there are also other components of the New Health ecosystem
for example the Federation and my new health.
So my new health is an app that is that can be used to enter vital data and in the end also
to share that vital data. And last year at the 40th birthday of GNU the second version was released
where all the dependencies outside Python were eliminated because many people don't have
Linux on their phones and we had requirements before they were now eliminated and it was
migrated to Kivi so now the idea is to have something cross-platform.
And then the GNU Health Federation aims to connect multiple of those HMIS nodes
and ideally also make the people, give the people the opportunity to share the vital data they
recorded with the hospitals. And so to give one example the colleagues in Argentina also used
this already in the beginning of the COVID pandemic to trace how much, yeah, just to trace the
situation of COVID. And now, yeah, to come to the topic of the room also,
GNU Health was declared a digital public good which is in the context of the sustainable
development goals of the UN where many goals should be achieved until 2030 and one of them is healthcare
and so, yeah, GNU Health is part of this and also just advertised at the European Commission join up
where, yeah, free software or open source software is, yeah, advertised inside the European Union
and then compared to other software projects, of course there are always bureaucratic barriers
and also certification processes but there are many steps to check if your project is a medical
device software but actually at least the hospital information system itself and the
electronic medical records are not a software or a medical device. Of course then there's
the other stuff for example in Germany would for sure need to have an interface with the
insurances and most of the productive use is somewhere else.
Then, yeah, from our point of view, proprietary software and public healthcare is a contradiction,
yeah, and we think that there should be, yeah, a move to free software and
there's really many barriers and a lack of funding especially for free software projects and,
yeah, there could be really many benefits of putting more resources in communities like this
so that everybody can profit from what people are working on.
This is why we also signed the campaign public money public code. I already saw it in the slides of
the talk before. I guess the most people know it but basically the name already says if there's
public money spent for a project then the code should also be available to the public.
Said quite easy but also not the reality.
Yeah, I'm finishing with a side of that Luis often says which is who has this
a social project with a bit of technology behind, yeah, to highlight that it's not
only about the software but also about the philosophy behind. Yeah, that's it. Thanks for your attention.